[docs][guides] other css frameworks (#26087)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/other-css-frameworks.md

---
title: Other CSS Frameworks
---

This guide introduces some other popular styling libraries that you might want to use in your project.

> ## How these frameworks were chosen

Reviewer: This isn't the kind of information I'd normally include in a guide. I think @marcysutton included it in the issue in an effort to describe the content she thought this page should have. (She's free to correct me if I'm wrong!)

You _could_ incorporate some of these points into more general advice on choosing a CSS library or framework. We don't really push for any one solution over another throughout the docs but we _can_ share strategies for making better framework/library choices.

Author: Got it! That's a great idea, I'll convert it.

Reviewer 2: That is indeed the reason I included it–to inform whoever would do this work. Though we'll have to keep an eye out to see if frameworks are added by the community that don't meet our standards–that may be a good reason to add something explicit back in.

Thanks for the ping and for working on this!

The following criteria were used to determine which frameworks to include in this guide:

- It must work with React and Gatsby.
- It must impact the styling of a Gatsby site.
- It should be a commonly requested or searched in the Gatsby docs.
- It must consider accessibility and not promote UI anti-patterns.

## Bootstrap

Bootstrap is a widely used CSS and JS framework that was created at Twitter in 2010. It gained popularity for its support of responsive and mobile-first design.

> Under the hood, Bootstrap uses [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/). Unlike other frameworks in this guide, Bootstrap does not provide React components directly. Instead, it provides a set of pre-built CSS class names like `"btn-primary"` or `"dropdown"` that you can use to style HTML elements.

Reviewer: I think you an do without the quotes here! Let me know if you saw this pattern elsewhere in the docs?

```suggestion
Under the hood, Bootstrap uses [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/). Unlike other frameworks in this guide, Bootstrap does not provide React components directly. Instead, it provides a set of pre-built CSS class names like `btn-primary` or `dropdown` that you can use to style HTML elements.
```

> If you're using Bootstrap v4 or older, many of the JavaScript components will need you to also install jQuery to work correctly. As of [Bootstrap v5](https://blog.getbootstrap.com/2020/06/16/bootstrap-5-alpha/), the framework no longer depends on jQuery.

Reviewer: The wording here feels a little awkward to me. Let me know what you think about this suggestion? I'd like to put more focus on what someone would need to _do_.

```suggestion
If you're using Bootstrap v4 or older, you'll also need to include jQuery to get many of the JavaScript components to work correctly. As of [Bootstrap v5](https://blog.getbootstrap.com/2020/06/16/bootstrap-5-alpha/), the framework no longer depends on jQuery.
```

Reviewer: Lots of good background in this section! I didn't even realize they'd switched to Sass!

**Browser-support warning:** Bootstrap v5 also dropped Internet Explorer support.

If you're interested in using Bootstrap and want to host the CSS and JS files yourself, you can install the [Bootstrap npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bootstrap). Or, if you'd rather not host the files yourself, you can source them using the [Bootstrap Content Delivery Network (CDN)](https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/).

- [Bootstrap documentation](https://getbootstrap.com/docs)
- [Bootstrap repo on GitHub](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap)

## Chakra UI

> Chakra UI is built on top of the [Emotion styling library](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction). It uses [Styled System](https://styled-system.com/) style props to override individual CSS properties for a component. Chakra UI supports theme customization, provides a library of components, and comes with dark mode out of the box.

Reviewer: You may want to specify exactly what you mean by "theme" here. I could see folks getting confused because of the existence of Gatsby themes.

## Grommet

Grommet is built on [Styled Components](https://styled-components.com/) and provides a library of modular, responsive components designed with a mobile-first approach. It also has built-in support for the W3C [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1](http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag) specification.

For designers, the [Grommet Design Kit](https://github.com/grommet/design-kit) provides sticker sheets and templates for some popular design tools, including Sketch, Figma, and Adobe XD.

If you're interested in using Grommet, check out [Using Grommet with Gatsby (Hewlett Packard Enterprise)](https://developer.hpe.com/blog/using-grommet-with-gatsby).

- [Grommet component documentation](https://v2.grommet.io/components)
- [Grommet repo on GitHub](https://github.com/grommet/grommet)
- [Grommet component examples on Storybook](https://storybook.grommet.io/)

## Material UI

Material UI provides a library of components designed using Google's [Material Design guidelines](https://material.io/design/introduction). It also supports customizing theme elements like color, typography, and breakpoints.

> If you're interested in using Material UI, check out the [`gatsby-plugin-material-ui` documentation](/packages/gatsby-plugin-material-ui/?=material%20ui).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're interested in using Material UI, check out the [`gatsby-plugin-material-ui` documentation](/packages/gatsby-plugin-material-ui).
```

There's no one right answer for which framework you should use. Ultimately it's a matter of personal preference and what works best for your project.

Here are some things you might want to consider when choosing a styling framework:

- Is it [accessible](/docs/making-your-site-accessible/)?
- Is it responsive? How will it look on a mobile device?
- Does it require additional dependencies?
- Does it have good documentation?
- Are there any browsers it doesn't support?

## Bootstrap

Bootstrap is a widely used CSS and JS framework that was created at Twitter in 2010. It gained popularity for its support of responsive and mobile-first design.

Under the hood, Bootstrap uses [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/). Unlike other frameworks in this guide, Bootstrap does not provide React components directly. Instead, it provides a set of pre-built CSS class names like `btn-primary` or `dropdown` that you can use to style HTML elements.

If you're using Bootstrap v4 or older, you'll also need to include jQuery to get many of the JavaScript components to work correctly. As of [Bootstrap v5](https://blog.getbootstrap.com/2020/06/16/bootstrap-5-alpha/), the framework no longer depends on jQuery.

> **Browser-support warning:** Bootstrap v5 also dropped Internet Explorer support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Bootstrap v5 also dropped Internet Explorer support.
```

I know this is less specific but it's also more consistent with similar notes throughout the docs.

Author: Sounds good, I'm def pro-consistency :)
